Anthony Bourdain's famous Coq au Vin

Another easy dish that looks like it’s hard. It’s not. In fact, this is
the kind of dish you might enjoy spending a leisurely afternoon with.
There are plenty of opportunities for breaks. It’s durable, delicious,
and the perfect illustration of the principles of turning something big
and tough and unlovely into something truly wonderful. I know it looks
like a lot of ingredients, and that the recipe might be complicated.
Just take your time. Knock out your prep one thing at a time, slowly
building your mise en place. Listen to some music while you do it.
There’s an open bottle of wine left from the recipe, so have a glass now
and again. Just clean up after yourself as you go, so your kitchen
doesn’t look like a disaster area when you start the actual cooking. You
should, with any luck, reach a Zen-like state of pleasurable calm. And
like the very best dishes, coq au vin is one of those that goes on the
stove looking, smelling, and tasting pretty nasty, and yet later,
through the mysterious, alchemical processes of time and heat, turns
into something magical.

Yield : Serves 4
Ingredients
1 bottle (1 liter) plus 1 cup (225 ml) of red wine
1 onion, cut into a 1-inch (2.5-cm) dice
1 carrot, cut into ¼-inch (6-mm) slices
1 celery rib, cut into ½-inch (1-cm) slices
4 whole cloves
1 tbsp (14 g) whole black peppercorns
1 bouquet garni
1 whole chicken, about 3.5 lb (1.35 kg) “trimmed”–meaning guts, wing tips, and neckbone removed
Salt and freshly ground pepper
2 tbsp (28 ml) olive oil
6 tbsp (75 g) butter, softened
1 tbsp (14 g) flour
¼ lb (112 g) slab or country bacon, cut into small oblongs (lardons) about ¼ by 1 inch (6 mm by 2.5 cm)
½ Ib/225 g small, white button mushrooms, stems removed
12 pearl onions, peeled pinch of sugar
Equipment:
3 large, deep bowls
Plastic wrap
Fine strainer
Large Dutch oven or heavy-bottomed pot
Tongs
Wooden spoon
Small sauté pan
Small saucepan
1 sheet of parchment paper (you can always beg a sheet off your local bakery–they’ve got lots)
Whisk
Deep serving platter

Directions
DAY ONE

The day before you even begin to cook, combine the bottle of red wine,
the diced onion (that’s the big onion, not the pearl onions), sliced
carrot, celery, cloves, peppercorns, and bouquet garni in a large, deep
bowl. Add the chicken and submerge it in the liquid so that all of it is
covered. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight.

DAY TWO

Remove the chicken from the marinade and pat it dry. Put it aside.
Strain the marinade through the fine strainer, reserving the liquids and
solids separately. Season the chicken with salt and pepper inside and
out. In the large Dutch oven, heat the oil and 2 tablespoons/28 g of the
butter until almost smoking, and then sear the chicken, turning with the
tongs to evenly brown the skin. Once browned, remove it from the pot and
set it aside again. Add the reserved onions, celery, and carrot to the
pot and cook over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally, until they
are soft and golden brown. That should take you about 10 minutes.

Sprinkle the flour over the vegetables and mix well with the wooden
spoon so that the vegetables are coated. Now stir in the reserved
strained marinade. Put the chicken back in the pot, along with the
bouquet garni. Cook this for about 1 hour and 15 minutes over low heat.

Have a drink. You’re almost there …

While your chicken stews slowly in the pot, cook the bacon lardons in
the small sauté pan over medium heat until golden brown. Remove the
bacon from the pan and drain it on paper towels, making sure to keep
about 1 tablespoon/14 g of fat in the pan. Sauté the mushroom tops in
the bacon fat until golden brown. Set them aside.

Now, in the small saucepan, combine the pearl onions, the pinch of
sugar, a pinch of salt, and 2 tablespoons/28 g of the butter. Add just
enough water to just cover the onions, then cover the pan with the
parchment paper trimmed to the same size as your pan. (I suppose you can
use foil if you must.) Bring to a boil, reduce to a simmer, and cook
until the water has evaporated. Keep a close eye on it. Remove the paper
cover and continue to cook until the onions are golden brown. Set the
onions aside and add the remaining cup/225 ml of red wine to the hot
pan, scraping up all the fond on the bottom of the pot. Season with salt
and pepper and reduce over medium-high heat until thick enough to coat
the back of the spoon.

Your work is pretty much done here. One more thing and then it’s wine
and kudos …

When the chicken is cooked through—meaning tender, the juice from the
thigh running clear when pricked—carefully remove from the liquid, cut
into quarters, and arrange on the deep serving platter. Strain the
cooking liquid (again) into the reduced red wine. Now just add the
bacon, mushrooms, and pearl onions, adjust the seasoning with salt and
pepper, and swirl in the remaining 2 tablespoons/28 g of butter. Now
pour that sauce over the chicken and dazzle your friends with your
brilliance. Serve with buttered noodles and a Bourgogne Rouge.

IMPROVISATION

If you are a bold adventurer, and live near a live-poultry market or
friendly pork butcher, you might want to play around a bit after doing
this recipe a few times. By cutting back on the flour and thickening
with fresh pig or chicken blood, you will add a whole new dimension to
the dish. Be warned, though: add the blood slowly. It doesn’t take much
to make the sauce sit up like a rock. (Blood freezes nicely, by the way,
so you might consider keeping a stash in small, individual packets. You
never know when you’ll need it.)

