Wheat sourdough. Makes 2 860g loaves.

850g good quality bread flour (Eureka or Gideon)
550ml water at 25C
20g table salt (fine powder, not rock salt)
300g of very active starter at 100% hydration (150g bread flour, 150g water)

Evening of day 1:
Begin using a vigorous starter and adding 150g flour and 150g water. Let the starter
triple it's size (I do this overnight). It should smell fresh and yeasty with very little
sour acetone smell.

Day 2 morning:

Mix the water and the flour into a stiff dough. Don't knead at this stage, it just needs
to be a rough dough. Set the mixture in a warm (25C) area for 2-3 hours (autolysis).

Add the salt and 300g of the starter and knead the dough for 10 minutes. It should 
start to show good elasticity and be silky smooth. Put the dough in a biggish plastic 
container (I use a rectangular tuppaware container that holds about 2.5l). Let the dough
rest for 1 hour. Hint: use wet hands if the dough is too sticky to handle.

Stretch and fold the dough using the bowl fold(See https://www.busbysbakery.com/how-to-stretch-and-fold/). 
I use 6-12 spiral stretches until you feel the dough tighten up. Repeat this process 
every 30 minutes for 4 folds. At this stage, the dough should "pane" 
(https://www.thekitchn.com/bakers-techniques-how-to-do-th-70784). 

At this stage, divide the dough into two 860g pieces. At this stage, I stretch the
dough out on a moist surface into a thin rectangle (it should stretch to 400x400mm
but don't force it). Fold 1/3 of one side over then fold the opposite 1/3rd back.
Do the same for the other direction so you end up with a squarish folded loaf.  See
https://www.busbysbakery.com/how-to-stretch-and-fold/ for some pictures. You can also use coil folds
at this stage: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wHL44ONu3so&list=WL&index=17&t=479s

Put the two loaves into two separate tuppaware containers and rest for 1 hour. You can
then do your pre-shaping fold on each loaf. Let the loaves rest for 30 minutes then
perform the final fold. This last fold should aim to shape the loaf for your banneton. 
Dust the loaves and the bannetons liberally with flour and place the loaf folded side up
into the banneton. Cover and put in a warm place for the bulk fermentation and final proving.
Once the loaves pass the finger test (a soft finger push into the loaf bounces back almost
completely. 

Put both loaves in the fridge for an overnight cold fermentation of 12-18 hours. 

Preheat your oven to 240C (with fan) and take the loaves out of the fridge. When the oven 
is hot, place a large pan with 1.5l of boiling water into the bottom of the oven for steam.
Turn the loaves out onto a baking tray (I use a baking Silpat) and score the loaf deeply. I
have oval bannetons so one lengthwise cut offset from the centre does the job. Deeper is better!

Bake for 15 minutes at 240C then turn the oven down to 190 and bake for a further 30 minutes.

Take the loaves out and place them on a wire rack to cool. They are best cut only after they have
cooled down to preserve the moisture in the loaf. 

Cut and serve with waaaay too much butter. 
