Jack Sturgess's ciabatta
https://www.bakewithjack.co.uk/blog-1/ciabattarecipe

For the Biga

250g       Strong white bread flour
250g       Room temperature water
3g         Fresh yeast or 2g of dry easy bake yeast  

For the final dough 
250g      Strong White Bread Flour
8g        Salt
8g        Fresh Yeast or 4g of dry easy bake yeast  
125g      Room Temperature Water
25g       Olive Oil

METHOD
For the Biga (make this ahead of time)

1. In a large mixing bowl mix together the ingredients for the Biga until it becomes a smooth paste, I normally use a whisk to make sure it’s all well incorporated. Take a good smell of your Biga now, and you’ll really appreciate the change after fermentation.

2. Cover the bowl with cling film and rest at room temperature for 6 hours. After this time, it should be puffy, bubbly, wobbly and smell amazing.

For the Final Dough

1. Weigh the yeast and then water into a jug, mix to soften the yeast.

2. Place your biga bowl onto the scales and make sure they are on zero. Weigh in the flour first, zero the scales again and weigh the salt on top of the flour. Give it all a little mix with your scraper, just enough to lose the salt in the flour.

3. Pour your liquid into the dry mixture, add the olive oil, and bring everything together into a dough.

4. Work your dough really well inside the bowl with a scraper for 8 minutes. To do this bring the dough into the edge of the bowl that is closest to your body. Scoop the dough up underneath with your plastic scraper, stretch it up out of the bowl and drop it down again in a circular motion. Then, pour the dough into a well oiled rectangular plastic box, cover with the lid and rest for 30 minutes at room temperature. 

First Fold

5. Oil your hands, and carefully slide them underneath one end of the dough, lift that end and fold it over the top. Do the same with the other end. Then turn the bowl 90 degrees and do the exact same thing. That’s four folds on four sides of the dough. Cover again and allow another 30 minutes rest.

Second Fold

6. Repeat the folds a second time, resting again for 30 minutes.

Third Fold

7. Repeat the folding of the dough once more. By now, you should feel a real change in the structure since first making the dough. It will have become like a nice pillow of dough, really alive and airy. Let the dough rest again for 30 minutes. The more you repeat these folding stages, the stronger your dough becomes and the more air it can hold!

8. Before the next stage, line two baking trays with parchment paper.

Dividing the dough

9. Turn the dough it out of the box onto a well-floured surface, then flour the sticky side of the dough too. Carefully pick up the corners and pull them out slightly making a definite landscape rectangle. Be gentle with your dough, the aim is to keep as much air inside the dough as possible. Divide it vertically into four long pieces with the flat side of your scraper.

10. Transfer the loaves to the lined trays by getting as much of your hands under each end of the dough as possible. Lift and stretch each piece very slightly, making them slightly longer, and place onto your parchment lined baking trays. Two loaves on each tray.

11. Preheat the oven to 230°C Fan/445°F/Gas Mark 9 while the loaves prove up again for 30 minutes. 

12. Bake for 5 minutes using steam if you like, then turn the heat down to 180°C Fan/355°F/Gas Mark 5 and bake for a further 15-20 minutes. Allow to cool completely on a wire rack.