
Preparation time 	1-2 hours 
Cooking time 	10 to 30 mins
Ingredients

For the panna cotta
3 gelatine leaves
250ml/9fl oz milk
250ml/9fl oz double cream
1 vanilla pod, split lengthways, seeds scraped out
25g/1oz sugar
For the sauce
175g/6oz sugar
175ml/6fl oz water
splash cherry liqueur
350g/12oz raspberries
To serve
4 sprigs fresh mint
icing sugar, to dust

Method

1. For the panna cotta, soak the gelatine leaves in a little cold water until soft.
2. Place the milk, cream, vanilla pod and seeds and sugar into a pan and bring to a simmer. Remove the vanilla pod and discard.
3. Squeeze the water out of the gelatine leaves, then add to the pan and take off the heat. Stir until the gelatine has dissolved.
4. Divide the mixture among four ramekins and leave to cool. Place into the <link:internal>fridge</link:internal> for at least an hour, until set.
5. For the sauce, place the sugar, water and cherry liqueur into a pan and bring to the boil. Reduce the heat and simmer until the sugar has dissolved.
6. Take the pan off the heat and add half the raspberries. Using a hand blender, blend the sauce until smooth.
7. Pass the sauce through a sieve into a bowl and stir in the remaining fruit.
8. To serve, turn each panna cotta out onto a serving plate. Spoon over the sauce and garnish with a sprig of mint. Dust with icing sugar.

Rachmaninov

--------------------------------------------------------------------
Rachel's version

    * ¼ cup water
    * 3 ½ tsp powdered gelatine
    * 3 ¼ cups single cream
    * ¾ cup icing sugar
    * 1 vanilla bean
    * 1 piece lemon rind
    * 100g (or about 72) raspberries
    * 2 tbsp extra icing sugar



Panna cotta's one of the easiest desserts to make, and also very impressive. The only part I don't like about it is the plating (which can get a bit messy), so I like serving them in little shot glasses like these. It's an excellent dessert to serve when you've got a fancy dinner to do since it can be prepared the night before and kept in the refrigerator until you're ready to serve it. (makes 18 shot glasses)

1. Place the water in a small bowl and sprinkle the powdered gelatine in. Give it a stir and set aside for 5 minutes.
2. Using a small, sharp knife, split the vanilla bean down the middle (but not all the way through so it should still be connected at one end), and scrape out the seeds. Place both the seeds and the rest of the bean into a saucepan with the cream, sugar, and lemon rind.
3. Simmer for about 5 minutes, stirring gently. Add in the gelatine mixture and heat through, stirring, for another 2-3 minutes. The gelatine should be completely dissolved by this stage.
4. Strain the liquid into a small jug, and discard the lemon rind and vanilla bean. Pour into 18 shot glasses and refrigerate for at least 4 hours.
5. About 1 hour before serving, toss the raspberries in the extra icing sugar and leave it in the fridge. This will help the juices come out so they become glossy, shiny, and extra yummy.
6. To serve, top each shot glass with about 4 raspberries.

