Shakshuka with trimmings


Yotam Ottolenghi


Shakshuka for four

1/2 teaspoon cumin seeds
1/4 cup olive or vegetable oil
2 large onions, sliced
2 red bell peppers, cut into 3/4-inch strips
2 yellow bell peppers, cut into 3/4-inch strips
4 teaspoons muscovado (or brown) sugar
2 bay leaves
6 thyme sprigs, leaves picked and chopped
2 tablespoons chopped parsley
2 tablespoons chopped cilantro, plus extra to garnish
6 ripe tomatoes (or two 14.5 ounce cans diced tomatoes)
1/2 teaspoon saffron threads
pinch of cayenne pepper 
salt and black pepper
up to 1-1/8 cups water
8 eggs

Optionally add a tablespoon of crushed preserved lemon


In a very large pan dry-roast the cumin seeds on high heat for 2 minutes.  Add the oil and onions and saute for 5 minutes.
Add the peppers, sugar and herbs and  continue cooking on high heat for 5 to 10 minutes to get a nice colour.

Add the tomatoes, saffron, cayenne and some salt and pepper.  Reduce the heat to low and cook for 15 minutes.  During the cooking keep adding water so that the mix has a pasta sauce consistency.  Taste and adjust the seasoning.  It should be potent and flavourful.  You can prepare this mix well in advance.

Remove the bay leaves, then divide the pepper mix among four deep frying pans, each large enough to take a generous individual portion.  Place them on medium heat to warm up, then make two gaps in the pepper mix in each pan and carefully break an egg into each gap.  Sprinkle with salt and cover the pans with lids.  Cook on a very gentle heat for 10 to 12 minutes, or until the eggs are set the way you like them.  Sprinkle with cilantro and serve. 

Date and preserved lemon salad

10 medjool dates, pitted, cut into strips
2 preserved lemons, finely chopped
2 green chillies, seeds removed, sliced
1/4 cup loosely packed flat-leaf parsley
1/4 cup (60ml) olive oil

Chop all the ingredients and blend


Lemon Yoghurt

300g yoghurt
1 preserved lemon, finely diced 
Juice of a quarter of a lemon
30ml extra virgin olive oil
Black pepper
Salt

Drain yoghurt in a colander lined with paper towel and mix in remaining ingredients