From https://www.reddit.com/r/Cooking/comments/91g9hi/i_recreated_hummus_said_the_iconic_ultra_creamy/?st=JJZZ2PF8&sh=9a9f70e6

Ingredients for 2-3 persons

Chickpeas

1 + 1/4 cup of dried chickpeas, soaked overnight in lots of water
1 tsp baking soda
2 tsp salt
Tahini sauce
juice of 2 lemons
1 head of garlic
1 can tahini (400g, 14 oz)
1/2 tsp of ground cumin

For blending the Hummus
1/3 cup of olive oil + more for serving

salt to taste (I like to start with 1 tsp)

Condiments / Sides
1 small raw onion, quartered
1 tomato, quartered
middle eastern pickled cucumbers
middle eastern pickled chilis
olives to taste

Pita (~8 pitas)
1/2 cup whole wheat flour
1 cup warm water
1 Tbsp sugar
2,5 tsp yeast
1 Tbsp olive oil
2 cups all purpose flour
1 tsp salt

Method

Begin by combining whole wheat flour, water, sugar, yeast, olive oil. In a separate bowl, mix in salt with all purpose flour. Add in yeast mixture.

Knead for 10 minutes. First with a spoon, then with some elbow grease! The dough will be quite sticky, try to not add any more flour than absolutely necessary. Cover and rest for one hour.

In a large sauce pan or dutch oven on medium heat, combine soaked chickpeas with baking soda and stir for about 4 minutes. This step helps dissolve the skins, so they will be easier to remove later on.

Cover generously with water and simmer on medium high heat until slightly overcooked, usually between 30-60 minutes. This step helps to get super creamy hummus. The chickpeas should turn to mush when lightly squeezed between two fingers and easily lose their skins.

Drain chickpeas under cold water. Add to a big bowl with lots of cold water and gently rub chickpeas against each other. Most of them should lose their skins, which will float to the top of the bowl.

With a slotted spoon or strainer, remove most chickpea husks. Don’t worry if you don’t get all. Drain chickpeas and set aside; reserve a few for topping your hummus later on.

In a small food processor, combine the lemon juice and a whole head of garlic. Break it down into individual cloves but don’t worry about peeling! Instead, add a dash of water and blitz for 2 minutes. This, again, is great for the consistency of the hummus.

In a strainer, press out the liquid from the lemon garlic juice. You can use the back of a spoon for this. Discard pulp when dry. This step helps to achieve a perfeclty even garlic flavor without any overly pungent garlic pieces in your hummus.

Combine strained lemon garlic juice with tahini, stir until it becomes a thick paste.

Add some water back in, a splash at a time, and mix until tahini sauce resembles a thick batter. Season with ground cumin.

In a food processor, add tahini sauce to chickpeas, along with olive oil and salt. Blitz very well, about 2-3 minutes, until all ingredients completely turn into a smooth paste. Let hummus rest for a little bit while you make delicious pita.

Roll out your risen dough on a well floured working surface and separate into 8 equal parts.

Roll each part into a tight ball of dough by tucking it underneath itself a number of times.

Dust dough balls with flour, cover with plastic / damp towel and let them rise for 20 minutes.

Flour dough balls again and roll them into round flatbreads, about 5mm / quarter of an inch thick. Dust, cover with plastic / damp towel and let them relax for a final proof of 15 minutes.

In the meantime, get a heavy cast iron skillet as hot as possible and oil lightly. Alternatively, use a baking sheet in an oven, preheated on max.

One by one, transfer your proofed pitas into your super hot skillet, and fry for 2 minutes on each side and for another minute on the first side again. Your pita should puff up at this point. Don’t worry if it doesn’t, still tastes great! Keep ready pitas wrapped inside a kitchen towel to prevent from drying out.

On a small plate, place a quartered small raw yellow onion, quartered fresh tomato, middle eastern pickles of your choice (cucumbers, chili, olives…)

Scoop some hummus on a plate, top with a few whole chickpeas and a healthy glug of olive oil; and enjoy with your fresh pita and condiments! Yum!